Oh molar we continue this is so great to
have now the full molar going on this is
incredible to have this information and
the opportunity to do this year this is
so exciting as I traveled around the
world and I share this information it's
so much fun to see the results of people
learning this and achieving greater
levels of expression this is what it's
all about it's all about expression so
to see these drummers learn these
techniques and in their hands the
rebound and this whipping motion it is
so exciting
bulla molar full molar now comes down to
the highest motion and the most power as
I show in my book and full molar what
you see down here full molar motion
again I've got the diagrams in here so
you can see how the actual motion works
so feel free to research it and look
into it full molar really is extremely
helpful in very very powerful plane very
powerful playing it's your highest
stroke and you'll see many many great
rockers play this way it's very very
showy also someone like Gene Krupa had
this sound big big sound way above his
head playing that was the full MOA at
its best and Jeanne Cooper was a student
of Sanford molar incredible that this
technique goes back right to the
beginning when Cooper broke the ice and
introduced all this great playing so
here we go now
dramatic positions so now what we're
going on the chart it goes from Germanic
informal full informal meaning molar and
of course full being your higher stroke
so if i go down to germanic position and
i begin to play this molar stroke at its
highest level it's full stroke it's this
slow motion I come up elbow goes up and
it goes way above my head in the highest
arc of my arm used as the entire whip
again slow motion it's this above above
my head at your higher stroke so be
prepared to work this is what I call
Olympic drumming as we come down it's
this Germanic informal full it's
actually a great calisthenics stroke to
loosen your body up and play it left
feel the full whip and you'll hear the
whip fly by your ears
in 1984 I showed this to Kenny Aronoff
he is my best example of demonstrating
the full molar stroke and I always say
the full molar stroke is more of a
calisthenics stroke
I don't think Kenny heard that part of
the session because he plays the full
motor stroke in most of his strokes you
want to hear a great player playing
powerful and look at the great shape
that Kenny's in look at how musically is
and listen to his backbeat when Kenny
plays he sends that sound flying through
those mics to the audience powerful when
he's playing in 40,000 people 60,000
people even the person in the back row
they hear his stroke clearly full molar
in that stroke when you're playing it
above your head way above your head feel
the motion work for it get the work for
it as you're playing you might want to
play within that groove you might want
that stroke in a ballad oh oh oh you
might want that sound to crank
you'll have the tool to do it this is
the sledgehammer of utilizing the range
of motion in the chart we went from tack
hammer medium hammer to sledge hammer
you're understanding more of the tools
there are many many more tools we'll
discuss more of them but as you build
your toolbox up it's incredible
you'll probably also have to use
different sticks and different sized
sticks of course because if you're
playing more powerful you want a bigger
stick to take the shock of what it is I
have a variety of big first sticks that
I use in my stick bag and of course the
kind of performance I'm playing dictates
the kind of stick or the kind of tool
that I would need to play the actual
pattern that I'm playing so you choose
you decide be involved full molar I'll
talk to you soon thanks so much keep it
going I love it